the strongest argument i've got
in favor of monogamy is this
if you got two or three wives you were
going to get
so sick and tired of nba jam
no i mean what do you got four player
games
four player cooperative games
what do you what do you really got micro
machines
on the sega genesis with those extra
controller ports
on the top of the of the cartridge no no
don't don't tell me i have some very
highly educated people minds
don't write into me saying that there
were a lot of great four player games
on the terrible graphics 16. no there
aren't no
they are there are youtube channels
saying
that they were great four player games
for total rapid sixty especially
the cd-rom games because nobody's played
they're terrible
every single one of them you are going
to spend the rest of your life
with uh nba jam nba hang time maybe
you're going to get that
full-size arcade cabinet for teenage
mutant ninja turtles
you know teenage mutant at the arcade
game you're gonna be so sick of that
music and by the time
you and your three wives are sick of
playing it you're going to have kids
and then it's going oh my god could we
can we just get through
to halftime this game bha it's gonna
[Music]
oh oh yeah yeah you filthy [ __ ]
take that here here take one of those
get out of here
oh yeah come on
[Music]
one of one of the strongest arguments
for monogamy
is that really you know it's it's kind
of two players or nothing
the world of videos and i mean that i
mean that okay i mean that
if you bought this device i have visible
in the background
to play one player games alone as an
adult
to me that's just the saddest thing
imagine because all
of these games like all video games if
you are a fully grown mentally mature
adult
dude it's like five minutes maximum
how long can you possibly as an adult
play neo-geo super dodge ball
alone
[Music]
how long can you play neo geo
baseball 2020 i forget g
was it was that game was it 2080 does
the baseball game set in the feat
is that is that five minutes of
entertainment for all
these were arcade games these were games
designed
to be played standing up
five minutes of entertainment maximum
and then you get on with your life and
of course this is the big advantage
in your 2020 if you are interested in
getting back into
neo geo games and almost every single
game on the system
is two player simultaneous some of them
cooperative
some of them competitive that's the
appeal that's what okay
what led up to me making this momentous
decision
to buy snk
neo geo arcade stick pro that i never
intend to play for more than five
minutes at a time but then i do play
i do play with my significant other with
my girlfriend
okay you know
it was the way this whole thing with uh
in television fell apart it was when i
totally
lost faith in the intellivision project
now if you guys don't know
i made some youtube videos a little bit
optimistic about this in television
thing
i then made a youtube video saying i
think this is complete garbage i've
completely lost
faith in the project i think it's going
to be terrell and then tommy talarico
himself
gets in touch with me he talks to me for
over an hour
we do this interview great guy wonderful
human being
would definitely be a better president
of the united states than donald trump
but when you buy in in television
you are not placing your vote to replace
donald trump you are you're you're
buying
a piece of consumer electronics and like
i could break it down
each and every justification for why i
was interested in the intellivision
fell apart during the year 2020 it could
have been
that the 2020 was the year of the
intellivision and it's not
it's not for me it's not for anybody
but like the rationale for why i thought
i've seriously thought you know money's
tight around here
really uh really really if you guys
if you guys don't know i put up an
amazon wishlist for books
because i was sitting there thinking
another 30 dollars for a book about
ancient chinese philosophy and i want to
say this also
i want to say this also even if you play
these games for five minutes
it will inspire you to reflect on
how much more meaningful those books are
that you could be reading
than this game you're playing i think my
catchphrase when i play video games now
is
this feels like a job i'm not being paid
to do
i say that all the time it's
entertainment
but it's entertainment that's somehow so
vacuous
so meaningless that it will cause you to
really reflect on you know what what is
meaningful in your life
here we go come in come in come here i
i i look at every one of these like that
my wife
come here come here with your lazy eyes
there you go
yeah take this right in your
bread basket you animals
okay so you know i was interested
in the intellivision and i could set out
all these reasons why
i was interested because i have a
daughter who might now never get to see
and i'm employing lawyers and all this
crap and maybe eventually
no story i have a daughter in television
said it was going to be
fun for the whole family cooperative
multiplayer
casual play i guess it reflects the same
themes you see here like this is not
going to be a system
for 400 hour long immersive rpg
experiences it's not going to be
massively multiplayer online
monetized transaction based experience
no there were a whole bunch of things
they were doing they said no
they're gonna return to couch
co-op in a sense that's like the
implicit
theme of this video this was and then
there were also these promises about
getting back to actually
educational software there were these
different things moving okay you know
what
i can start planning for this i can put
aside the money to actually buy
this thing the intellivision that tommy
talarico is
is proposing and when that fell apart
when i fell apart i just
i just sat there and thought about it i
just sat there and thought about it it's
like you know what
i don't know if i'm ever gonna see my
daughter again maybe the next time i see
her
she's gonna be like 16 years old and
would completely sneer at the idea of
playing
kirby's epic yarn with me good example
of a cooperative
two-player game you can play but you
know that's more like for six years old
not
16 years old you know it may just be we
missed the window of opportunity
to play videos that's okay all right so
that's you know what when you really
think about it
in the whole history of video games what
would i
want to play with microphone what is it
not even not even necessarily nostalgia
not even stuff i play for most including
stuff i never played stephanie
and you really there was this one
window of opportunity in the history of
video games with the neo geo
where people were putting a lot of time
and effort into making really high
quality games
that were only meant to be played for
five minutes and like almost every
single one of them is
is too clear as mentioned okay if you
got
three wives i know i know i have some
mormons who are long time
if you got through it's not for you it's
not gonna work out there's no way you
can daisy chain together
for neogeo arcade sticks to make where
it's two player
or nothing and if you're if you're a
lonely dude if you live alone
don't do this absolutely none of it is
worth playing one player like
not even for five minutes and again you
know even
at like pretty much any given time
there's a burden of books i should be
reading and projects there's
better things to do than that and you
know five minutes 15 minutes
you really start thinking about what it
is you could be doing with your if
you're playing alone you know as opposed
to it
but but
okay we got a note here right off the
bat
so here it is the stuff of legends the
video game
console that every kid our age lusted
after are you with me here
and every kid our age is like i'm 43.
i'll say okay do you know yet i bet you
do
i can't think of anyone who deserves it
more after the road you've traveled
enjoy it
oh baby
are you kidding me
when i came to like the end of my rope
with the intellivision thing
i realize you know what i missed my
chance
to buy the neo geo hardware the last
time
this happened and no i don't mean 1991
i mean when there was this short-term
opportunity to buy what was called the
neo-geo x
some people call it the neo-geo x gold
all right there was a revival of the neo
geo it wasn't perfect
a lot of youtube channels criticized the
hell out of it but they brought out
the old-fashioned solid black joystick
and they brought out an emulator system
and you could buy the old games there
was this window of opportunity to buy a
revive
neo geo and i missed it right today if
you want that it's either impossible to
buy you're going to have to buy it from
some collector on ebay and
in favor of you know what as it happens
at this moment when i've lost all faith
in the possibility of buying an intel i
just think this is garbage
tommy talarico wonderful guy wonderful
guy
and you know whatever some of the music
he's made
i got respect for too
wonderful guy terrible business plan
terrible console
doomed project the intellivision and
it's like and then i'm looking so you
know what i actually have this brief
opportunity
right now to buy this neo geo
revival that's going to buy into this
you know
and if i don't do it now just like the
neo geo x before it's going to disappear
and you could you could already see the
prices going up and up
so this is this is telling so the first
step the first step i took was this
i bought this thing and i bought it in
the package
where you get two plug-in controllers so
you can play
two-player or something right and this
thing at that time
even on amazon you saw the price going
up and up and up
like within like a week all right like
how how is it possible for something to
go from like
new to like scarce collector's item
within like two years of the project
being launched it's great and you know
if you
right now if you look this up on ebay
people are paying tons of money
you know for these things and like you
can probably just tell from the weight
i mean there's no intrinsic value in
this all the components
could go into a cell phone right it's
like a cell phone
i'm not saying the screen is bad it's
beautiful screen tiny
tiny but like you know this is what this
is it's like a cell phone
reformatted to be this simulated arcade
cabinet right so that was
that was the first step
and what you realize as soon as you have
bought this thing all right no matter
how great the games are
you know how much it reminds you of the
legacy of the neo geo
and whatever maybe maybe it brings back
memories for you
of being like an 11 year old kid
in a pizza restaurant and seeing samurai
showdown for the first time
you know it may have vote for a lot of
people my generation
so folks all kinds of memories and for
pretty much everyone
these were not the games you owned they
were the games you could
never possibly own it was unattainable
but you could glimpse them in a pizza
restaurant if you read
video game magazines at that time video
game magazines
raving about them and all kinds of them
they probably weren't available in your
town or you saw them once when you were
in new york city you saw them when you
were on vacation somewhere
right it's very rare
for something to be so mainstream and
so tawdry and yet to have this mystique
right and that's exactly what neogeo had
it also had a mystique because so much
of it was just incomprehensible
it's in broken english it doesn't make
any sense
[Music]
they all they all seem to have like a
rough idea of what the plot should be
this is also the main source of
entertainment sitting there and
ridiculing these games
but you know probably the original
japanese
barely made sense and you know when he
crosses the ocean across the language
all right but that's you but if you were
an eight-year-old kid if you were a 12
year old kid whatever age when you
weren't
this drew you in this this game it's
trying to speak to me it's trying to
tell me a story but i don't know what
the hell it is
but there was something there and and
for all of us i mean all these games in
the arcade
i only played them for five i never saw
level two of the sly spy never
ask never you joking i i probably never
got to the third
enemy in in samurai showdown i was a
child a child's
skill level no okay but but but this is
not about
the software you know right
as soon as you've bought into this thing
what you're going to realize is that
the controls are a joke this actual
joystick
is a joke most of these games most of
the games this system is
famous for and of course you also get
the joy of discovering
all kinds of games that are not famous
that you've never heard of before
get to discover the whole neogeo library
right
you're going to realize i need a 200
joystick to play these games and that's
you know that was the genius
of this it's terrible it's a total
failure
right but like if you can buy this for
fifty dollars
then you realize what i need to do what
i
really the really responsible choice i
need to make
is gonna cost me like like 200
right and you you don't just need one of
these
no well you're not gonna play these
games alone
you in your mormon compound with your
three wives and your six kids who were
all named caleb
you're not gonna put some no
you're gonna buy two all right in a
sense the fatal flaw is the two's the
limit because caleb and caleb and caleb
they're going to have to learn to share
right they're going to learn to take
turns it's tragic
this sharing sharing is what mormonism
is all about
okay so what you realize
what you realize is that for this
library of games whether you play alone
or with a special friend what it
requires
what's what's missing what's missing
from your experience
is this just just lean in lead into this
picture
hear that you hear that that's steel
steel
don't you guys have a saying in detroit
like a car
is only as good as its crankshaft no
something no
all right oh my god look at this it's a
stuff a legend
you want to let you listen to
that you animals
if you would have grabbed me by my
orange mullet back in 1992
while i was sitting there and staring at
this console
staring at it on the wall and just
drooling like this
just staring it was impossible
do you understand it was impossible it
was a 740
dollar gaming console and the games were
250 dollars
plus you have to admit to yourself
there's no way really for you to
appreciate or play these games without
hundreds of dollars worth of joystick i
mean there's no limit now
if you look around and if you know where
to look on the internet today
you can legitimately buy these for i
think less than 100 us dollars each
but most of you are going to find them
for more already
you can you're going to find them for
way more on ebay on recent it's amazing
already it's gone from
mainstream to like collector's item even
though they're still making them they're
still available new
you're going to find them so you may be
paying 200 you may be paying 100
but if you're buying two of them then
then if you get into modifying and
upgrading the components
okay so this is a review
of more than one thing in this video
right
we're reviewing the concept of video
games
you could conceivably play if you are
not the kind of person
who plays video games it's already a
little bit interesting right
it's a question of video games you could
play with your kid
if you've got kids this question of
video games you could play with your
wife husband whatever these this isn't
right
and then for me there's this sense that
could have been the year of the
intellivision amico
and it's not for me it's the year
of rediscovering the neogeo
but i think i think there really is
something
special produced by this brief period of
time
when people were making games you know
not trying to keep you captivated at a
cell phone
for hours so that you'll click to buy a
loot box
right so you'll pay money to get an
upgrade like today this is how games are
designed not even games that are
designed
like you remember final fantasy for the
original playstation
where like the value for money was
getting you to do the same repetitive
action
again and again for hours you know
one of the things that struck me most
about playing these games now in 2020
i could never hear the music before like
i only ever encountered these games in a
pizza restaurant when i was like 11
years old
he was wow the music was incredible
and the music it's meant to be
captivating
and draw you in and entertain you for
five
minutes maximum just like the graphics
just like the gameplay you want depth
there's no depth
none there's a refreshing absence
of depth but you can just feel
all of the creative energy of this whole
team of artists sitting there in japan
you know all these guys you can tell
that went to art school
pouring their heart and soul into trying
to make that
five minutes for you worth the 25 cents
you put in the machine all right sengoku
one two and three insanity
complete insanity i would nominate
sengoku as like the greatest
buddhist video game of all time right
just a mash-up of completely surreal
hell imagery demon imagery reincarnation
imagery
from you know japanese shinto mythology
and buddhism buddhist
miscellany right there's no plot
there's no i think part of the fun of of
playing single is you can make up the
plot
as you go along right is this you know
totally stimulating totally empty
experience right and then it's over and
like
again i mean you know you push the
button
and something happens on screen and
pretty soon you're thinking
wasn't i supposed to be reading
something don't i you know
and that's good that's you know that's
good for years
uh psychiatrists tried to design
different drugs that would create like
an aversion to alcohol where you have
one drink or two drinks then you
wouldn't want you know so that
alcoholics could wean themselves off
i've actually heard mixed reviews that
some of those treatments actually
work you know like can you can you
medicate
alcoholism away well you know maybe you
can and maybe you can
i i've got to tell you i mean i
on the one hand human beings
are capable of becoming addicted to
a simple deck of playing cards people
get addicted to solitaire
people get addicted to huffing glue and
eating shoe polish all these terrible
things
could it be that in this brief period
when the neogeo
you know neo geo was at its peak
at its pinnacle you know the strange
artist
could it be that that was the period
when when video games were
just in this one format you know the
stand-up arcade
cabinet when it was actually something
kind of harmless that two people could
do for five minutes
and then get on with us maybe maybe and
maybe i'm wrong maybe i'm not gonna get
a fan mail from a whole bunch of you
about how you got addicted to king of
monsters 2
on the neo geo arcade stick and you lost
then you dropped out of college and you
lost your job and your wife left you and
you ruined your life
maybe i think the case that was there
for the intellivision amico
for me was interesting because it was
really a case being made
against everything that's wrong with
video games in the 21st century right i
mean that's it's insane it's a terrible
marketing strategy
but like tommy talarico was arguing this
this and this
is bad and wrong and terrible about the
video game ministry in 2020
and now he's going to come out with
something that in all those ways
is the antidote he's going to come out
with something which is fun for the
whole family
co-op multiplayer couch
gameplay again so multiplayer here
meaning like
two people maybe three or four sitting
in one place at one time
looking at a screen together as opposed
to
you know having a living room where that
person's over there on their cell phone
and that person's over there on a tablet
and
they could all be playing if someone
else has a laptop computer and someone
else has a
as a console like the nintendo switch
like
where video games don't have to be this
mutually isolating
and deeply engrossing experience that
can instead be something that you know
for a short time
brings people words put it this way
where video games
are something more like board games
right
that was what tommy teller telerico
pitched
and you know then for me
there was this tantalizing possibility
of educational software
and by this strange coincidence i had to
pause and reflect that you know what
most of the things i would be hoping for
in the intellivision amigo they're
actually already
here they're already available here and
now
in the legacy of the neogeo
very little educational value but if you
are learning either chinese or japanese
read carefully the text you can actually
practice chinese or japanese while
playing these games
uh if you're highly motivated enough to
uh
to read carefully
[Music]
oh yes yes sega master system
doing it big time
okay look
when i was a kid computers
were something that existed in one room
of the house
for one hour a day and video games
were some that existed in one room of
the house for one
hour of the day and we all know the
reality in 2020
video games have taken over the whole
house
and computer entertainment computer
distractions computer
communications computer productivity
have taken over
24 hours a day and this has happened
in large part to the cellular phone
bringing the computer bringing the video
bringing all these applications putting
it in your pocket and putting it in
front of your face
i heard an antidote of a guy on youtube
today
he was talking about going to hooters
so he was hooters and they're these you
know half naked women these sexy women
in these costumes
nobody's looking at him he said like
there were eight guys they're all
drinking whiskey and staring at their
phones
they're doing and you know they could be
doing something important on their phone
so they're not
they could be they could be negotiating
with a divorce lawyer over the i don't
know
right like it could be they could be
learning chinese on their phones i got a
chinese learning app
if you see me at the gym staring at my
phone you know i promise i'm studying
training
i used to do that um
okay come on buddy here get off the
machine you don't
get done doing chinese level three verbs
here come on
you know i'm not gonna say to you
that you can't be hard-working 24 hours
a day i'm not going to say to you you
can't
read books 21st you can't nobody needs
to take a break you don't need to take a
break from reading
to play but you don't you don't you
don't i'm not going to say to you have a
balanced
lifestyle don't be passionate be focused
try to accomplish things
reality is if i'm over in the corner
reading a book and my girlfriend
is over in the other corner reading
another book we're together
but in a sense each of us
is alone
i think there's a function for video
games in our lives
whether it's me with my daughter me with
my girlfriend
i think there's a function for short
periods of time
of bringing people together just to sit
together
and play where video games can be
something
not so different from playing a board
game together
i didn't live through monopoly
leaving that one room in the house and
that one hour
and taking over our lives i didn't live
through a generation where
poker or pinocchio or ludo
you know came out of the one room vest
and took over
it's not what i lived to right i was the
generation
i saw 8-bit go to 16-bit go to 32-bit
and i saw it ruin everyone's lives
around me okay
i saw so many guys in the university
you know they learned nothing the whole
time the universe and video games it
really was the main reason
you know um that's what i've lived
through that's what i've i've seen
i can't tell you video games are a
positive thing
in the world or they're positive in your
life they're not
all right but i asked the question
you know uh
if you want to have some limited role
for video games in your life in your
family in your play time with your kid
maybe we can't look to something new
like the in television maybe we've got
to look at something old
what we can do with retro gaming what we
can do with things like right now
the revival of the neo-geo system